Autonomy probably doesn't mean what you think it means (#300)
mauroservienti/milestone.github.io: _posts/autonomy.md

I define that as a source of coupling hurting autonomy, other than having more nuanced issues. At the same time, the services happily share other events without showing any coupling issues. What's the difference?

## What is autonomy?

We first need to understand what autonomy is. Autonomy refers more to the internals of a component rather than to the externals. The open/closed principle is an "inverse" instance of that: extensions should be allowed without the need to modify the internals. When that's the case, also the opposite is true: a component can change its internals without affecting others. The component is autonomous.

How does that apply to distributed systems? We can view it in the following way: components are autonomous when they are free to evolve internally. They can change their behaviors, add new behaviors, and have complete control over the data structure they decide to use and possibly change over time. All those changes won't affect other components in the system.

> Is it always possible to design autonomous components? No, when it's not possible, coupling surfaces. When we're trying to develop a distributed system, lack of autonomy, and thus coupling, is generally caused by sharing too many internal details of the wannabe autonomous components. That can be in the form of sharing data impeding data schema changes, leaking technical information (e.g., the type of the storage), allowing other components to make behaviors assumptions, etc.

Author: What about this:

> It’s not always possible to design autonomous components. When that happens they are coupled.

Is that a problem? It depends. That's why we define service boundaries. If two or more components are somewhat coupled within the boundaries of service is way less of a problem than if there is coupling across services. Being coupled across services hurts autonomy much more than within a single service boundary.

### Why is that?

The assumption is that autonomous components are easier to maintain and evolve. They are also easier to deploy because they won't affect other parts of the system. Based on business concerns, we can group components into services: Components dealing with akin business requirements will live in the same service boundary (it's probably simplistic, but it's good enough for today's discussion).

> Services inherit components' autonomy making them autonomous too. If coupling surfaces within service boundaries across components, that service will be more complex to maintain, evolve, and deploy. If coupling surfaces across services, the entire system will.

Author: ```suggestion
Services inherit components' autonomy making them autonomous too. If you’re coupling components within service boundaries, that service will be more complex to maintain, evolve, and deploy. If you’re coupling services, the entire system will.
```

> More details and examples about pivotal events are available in the excellent [Domain-Driven Design Use Case: Improving A Life Insurance Selling Platform](https://www.blog.jamesmichaelhickey.com/DDD-Use-Case-Life-Insurance-Platform/) by [James Hickey](https://www.blog.jamesmichaelhickey.com/).

## The business doesn't care about coupling

At this point, we have a problem. The business doesn't pay any attention to the type of coupling we consider harmful from the architectural perspective. Some forms of coupling might be interesting from the business perspective. For example, depending on a single supplier might be an issue. However, they don't consider the dependencies between Sales and Shipping as a concern.

But we do! And that implies that we look at autonomy with different eyes.

Back to the type of coupling and autonomy concerning the architecture: If events are what connect services, it's crucial to keep them as thin as possible and to respect their immutable nature. That translates into a "share nothing" policy. I expect an OrderDelivered event to look like the following:

{
  orderId;
  customerId;
  deliveryTypeId;
}

> Usually, nothing else. That event type reduces coupling at its minimum. It's implausible that any of the shared information changes over time. The critical part is that the primary key structure is not supposed to change so we can share identifiers. Or, if that changes, it will be such a disruptive process that coupling is a breeze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, nothing else. That event type reduces coupling to its minimum. It's improbable that any of the shared information changes over time. The critical part is that the primary key structure is not supposed to change so we can share identifiers. Or, if that changes, it will be such a disruptive process that coupling is a breeze.
```

## Alarm bells

> How do we determine if something shared across service boundaries hurts autonomy? My general approach is to look at the request using the open/closed principle lenses. Does the request imply sharing internals of service? Does the request cause data to leak? Does the demanding service request data that is not interesting for the owing service?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How do we determine if something shared across service boundaries hurts autonomy? My general approach is to look at the request through the lens of the open/closed principle. Does the request imply sharing internals of service? Does the request cause data to leak? Does the demanding service request data that is not interesting for the owing service?
```
